Title: DNA and insurance
Date: 2007-12-09 19:48
Author: Tony Locke
Slug: post-8568031318448901024
Status: draft

<div>

Almost everybody who talks about the implications of decoding DNA warns that we have to be careful that the information isn't abused by insurance companies. Craig Venter was the latest person I heard repeating this view.

</div>

  

<div>

</div>

  

<div>

Put simply their case is that if an insurance company finds out that I've got a high probability of contracting a disease at a young age that requires expensive treatment, then they may not insure me. Then I'd not only have a terrible disease, but I'd get no treatment! Can't argue with that, it's a genuine danger.

</div>

  

<div>

</div>

  

<div>

Well I do disagree with this view. The idea of insurance is to pay a small regular amount to the insurance company, and in return they pay for rare high-cost unpredictable events.

</div>

  

<div>

</div>

  

<div>

The amount you pay each year to the insurance company is: (cost of event) \* (annual probability of event) + (administrative costs) + (profit).

</div>

  

<div>

</div>

  

<div>

A divagation: If you've got enough money it's cheapest to insure yourself. You should set aside each year (cost of event) \* (annual probability of event) and in addition you should have a reserve of at least the cost of the event. This saves you paying for administrative costs and the insurance company's profit. There's an extra benefit in that you're not paying for the risk of fraudulent claims which have to be build into insurance charges. There's a disbenefit though, in not knowing accurate probabilities of things happening, which insurance companies are good at.

</div>

  

<div>

</div>

  

<div>

If an insurance company has no information on its customers, then they all pay the same amount. This ends up with some customers subsidizing others. It then becomes cheaper for some people to switch to another insurance company that does discriminate. The indiscriminate insurance company would go out of business. But what if insurance companies weren't allowed to know anything about their customers? Even if this were enforcable,

</div>

  

<div>

</div>

</p>

