Title: Whilst I agree that it is right to implement pollu...
Date: 2008-02-07 16:51
Author: The Lazy Environmentalist
Slug: post-6434157651754540382
Status: published

Whilst I agree that it is right to implement polluter pays mechanisms such as carbon tax, it is incorrect to determine this as an either/or issue. If you subscribe to the basic principle that we must also replace our current use of fossil fuel with a suitable alternative (whether it be for reducing greenhouse gases and/or because of our pending energy crisis), then energy from renewables is the inevitable solution (yes, there is possibly nuclear, but that brings with it a host of problems which I shall not address here, not least of all that it does not have the capacity that renewables, and in particular energy from the sun can give us - just look at Concentrating Solar Power for instance; less than 1% of the worlds deserts can give sufficient energy for the world's needs. Electricity derived from CSP can of course also be used for transport, heating, cooling and indirectly desalination. The possibilities are enormous. To read more on CSP visit http://www.trec-uk.org.uk).  
  
So, how to implement a policy that supports renewable energy? For specific renewable energy technologies to succeed, well-conceived government intervention is required. Without legislative assistance, renewables are unable to compete - simple as that. We are, afterall dealing with a historical energy system predicated on the use of fossil fuel. New mechanisms need to be implemented to open the door to renewables being included and indeed in time taking over completely.  
  
FIT's are a specific market mechanism to facilitate non-commercial RE technology to become commercialised in as fast as time as possible. In other words, take it to mass production levels where it can stand alone. It is well established that FIT's are the most effective, cost efficient and transparent system to facilitate not only introduction of RE into the marketplace, but also to promote homegrown industry in the sector. This is clearly demonstrated in all countries that have successful FITs, eg Germany, Spain.  
  
One aspect of FIT's that is often overlooked is that they place a legal obligation on the utility to buy-in the renewable electricity (at a set price). This is of course absolutely key. Without this legal obligation, business as usual would prevail with the utilities.  
  
To read more about FIT's you may care to look at  
http://www.onlinepact.org/  
  
Time is short, the world needs to move fast to shift to a renewable energy system. Yes, carbon taxing will come, but it will take time - there is an almighty lobby out there fighting against this, and even if implemented, will take some time to reach a reasonable level (and a level that accurately reflects the true cost of externalities). We need FIT's now - not just in the UK where ROC's have proven utterly inadequate (and are not supported by the electricity regulator Ofgem) - but also at EU level and globally. Very few countries have even the the basic foundations of a renewable energy policy, and of those that do, it is those with FIT's that are succeeding in reaching their targets and will continue to successfully progress.  
  
There are various books on RE and potential policy, but one I particularly recommend you read is Feed-in Tariffs, Accelerating the Deployment of Renewable Energy, written by one of the foremost experts in this area, Miguel Mendoca.
