Title: Meditation II
Status: draft

became concerned that despite their appalling and illegal rule, failing to recognise
the <em>de facto</em> Taliban government of Afghanistan was doing more harm than good,
so I wrote to my MP, Liberal Democrat Wera Hobhouse:

> From: Tony Locke<br>
> Sent: 7 February 2022 08:23<br>
> To: Office Of Wera Hobhouse<br>
> Subject: Recognising the Afghan government<br>
>
> Hi Wera, I'm writing in support of international recognition of the
> government in Afghanistan. I'm not sure what the official Lib Dem view is
> on this issue, but I wanted to register my view that the people of
> Afghanistan are suffering terribly at the moment, and the famine is set to
> get worse, and their suffering would be alleviated by recognition of the
> government.
>
> Regards,
>
> Tony Locke 

and I received the following reply:

> From: Office Of Wera Hobhouse<br>
> Date: Fri, 11 Feb 2022 at 14:11<br>
> Subject: Re: Recognising the Afghan government<br>
> To: Tony Locke<br>
>
>
> Dear Tony,
>
> Thank you for your email.
>
> Nobody will have followed the recent events in Afghanistan without feeling great
> alarm, worry and shame about the failure of the West to stop the advance of the
> Taliban and support the people in Afghanistan.
>
> My Liberal Democrat colleagues and I do not believe in recognising the Taliban as the
> official Government of Afghanistan. The withdrawal from Afghanistan has made the
> British people less safe by shrinking our role on the world stage and failing to work
> with other countries to combat the threat of terrorism. The Government has left it to
> become a breeding ground for Al-Qaeda again, without a thought to the impact on our
> national security.
>
> The Taliban’s gaining of control over Afghanistan, including Panjshir, is devastating
> for millions of innocent women and girls who are fearing for their lives. Their
> liberties and rights are in the process of being extinguished once again.
>
> The Liberal Democrats called for an immediate commitment to resettle 20,000 Afghan
> refugees as a bare minimum. The priority should be to bring those most at risk to
> safety through an emergency Women and Girls Resettlement Scheme. The Government’s
> plans to resettle 5,000 refugees is not enough.
>
> The Home Office’s statement in Parliament in early January 2022, formerly launching
> the Afghan Citizen Resettlement Scheme, revealed that women, girls, and religious and
> other minorities in Afghanistan have been put to the back of queue of the
> Government's resettlement scheme.
>
> Back in August 2021, this Government made a promise to women, girls, and religious
> and other minorities in Afghanistan - that they would be a priority under the new
> Afghan Citizen Resettlement Scheme. That was a promise of hope to these people, at a
> time when they are living in fear from the Taliban because of their identity.
>
> Now, the Conservative Government has not only broken that promise, they have
> effectively told these Afghans that they are at the back of the queue. The Ministers
> responsible for this callous decision – which will cost lives – should hang their
> heads in shame. The UK has a proud history of providing sanctuary to those in need.
> The Liberal Democrats believe that the Government needs to show that same leadership
> and compassion now.
>
> The Government must also ensure it is doing all it can to provide a safe exit for
> those in third countries who risk dangerous deportation to Afghanistan. The Liberal
> Democrats are calling on the government to work with international allies to
> establish a safe passage corridor for all those in Afghanistan who need to flee the
> Taliban and to provide aid to those remaining in Afghanistan, a call echoed by NGO,
> Refugees International.
>
> Thank you again for writing to me, and please do not hesitate to get in touch if I
> can be of any further assistance.
> 
> With best wishes,
>
> Wera Hobhouse
> Liberal Democrat MP for Bath
